The Project Gutenberg EBook of Diary Kept by Rifleman B.C. Stubbs of the
Second Draft Sent to the Queen Victoria R, by Bernard Castle Stubbs

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: Diary Kept by Rifleman B.C. Stubbs of the Second Draft Sent to the Queen Victoria Rifles in France

Author: Bernard Castle Stubbs

Release Date: June 23, 2018 [EBook #57381]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DIARY ***




Produced by Brian Coe, David E. Brown, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)







[Illustration: BERNARD CASTLE STUBBS]


_Proem_

  _So at the threat ye shall summon--so at the need ye shall send
  Men, not children or servants, tempered and taught to the end;
  Cleansed of servile panic, slow lo dread or despise
  Humble because of knowledge, mighty by sacrifice....
  So ye shall bide sure guarded when the restless lightnings wake
  In the womb of the blotting war cloud, and the pallid nations quake._

                                                         RUDYARD KIPLING




  DIARY KEPT BY
  RIFLEMAN B. C. STUBBS

  OF THE SECOND DRAFT
  SENT TO THE
  QUEEN VICTORIA RIFLES
  IN FRANCE

  [Illustration]

  CHICAGO
  PRIVATELY PRINTED
  1915




  COPYRIGHT, 1916, BY
  RALPH McCOY




“_Dulce et Decorum Est_”

MR. B. C. STUBBS


Once again the shadow has fallen darkly on all associated with the
Union-Castle Line, both in the City of London and at sea. Another
young member of the Company’s staff at the Fenchurch Street offices,
Mr. Bernard Castle Stubbs, who joined the Queen Victoria’s Rifles (9th
Battalion London Regiment) in September last, has laid down his life
for his country. Shortly after enlistment, he volunteered for the first
draft which went out to make good the casualties in his regiment, and
on arriving in France last February was sent direct to the firing
line. He was in the famous fight on Hill 60 during the night of April
20-21, under the command of Lieutenant G. H. Woolley, who gained the
first Victoria Cross conferred on a Territorial officer for his gallant
efforts in that bitterly contested struggle. On June 22 Private Stubbs
sustained a shell wound in the head, and he died on the following
day at the Receiving Hospital at Bailleul, without having regained
consciousness. The lad was educated for eight years at Slough, where
he was distinguished both in his classes and in the school sports,
and was head boy of the school during his last few terms, as well as
captain of the cricket and football teams, the holder of a cup for the
school championship at “fives,” and the winner of the swimming medal of
the school. He later captained the Old Boys’ football team. On leaving
school in 1907 he entered the offices of the Union-Castle line, and
his death at the early age of 24 has closed what was a very promising
career.

                                                        --_South Africa_




DIARY KEPT BY RIFLEMAN B. C. STUBBS


WEDNESDAY, _February 10, 1915_

Owing to wire calling me back from leave, left Watford by 7:51 train,
catching the 9:10 from Victoria to Crowboro’. Left Crowboro’ by 6:03
for Southampton after a fine send-off from rest of Battalion. Arrived
Southampton at 11 P. M. and spent a good night on floor of board school
in the town.


THURSDAY, _February 11, 1915_

Morning spent in having hair cut short and a nice hot bath--just to
make sure that anyway I leave England clean. Afternoon we marched to
Army Stores and drew new rifles and bayonets. In the evening sported 3d
at a local cinema. Another good night on school floor.


FRIDAY, _February 12, 1915_

Stood by till 12 noon all ready to embark, and then told owing to
submarines in Channel we could not get away. Hung about Southampton all
afternoon and did a music hall in evening. Shall be glad to get a move
on, although Southampton people are very kind.


SATURDAY, _February 13, 1915_

Fred Karno’s army again! Stood by all morning, then told no chance
of going to-day and dismissed till roll call at 9:30. Had a game of
billiards after drawing ten bob from local Donald Currie Office, and
just going to have tea when told to return to schools at once as
we were just off. Hurried back and stood by for an hour, and then
dismissed again. Did another picture show in evening, but spent a
rotten night owing to toothache and squash through more troops coming
in.


SUNDAY, _February 14, 1915_

Off at last! Told definitely we embark at 12 noon and actually did so,
but did not leave quay until 6. The whole way down Southampton water
we were covered with searchlights, and then picked up an escort of
destroyers who saw us safely across. But what a voyage! About 8:30 I
found myself wedged with others into stable with horses a few yards
away. Ship, a cargo boat and rolled like hell! Any amount of men ill
but thank goodness I kept fit. Eventually dozed off about 11:30.


MONDAY, _February, 15, 1915_

Made my way out of stable to find ship lying off Havre at about 6:30
A. M. Eventually docked at 12 noon and then transferred to another
and smaller ship for our journey up the Seine. Very surprised at the
size of docks at Havre. The town looked very pretty from the ship and
should have liked a short time ashore, but nothing doing! Turned in at
8 o’clock, but horses made such a row could not sleep. Walked round
ship whilst we left harbour and anchored in mouth of river, ready for
our trip to Rouen in morning. Finally fell asleep on a form in men’s
quarters and slept fairly well.


TUESDAY, _February 16, 1915_

Up at 6:30 and luckily got a cup of coffee from ship’s cook. Have lived
on bully beef and biscuits since leaving Southampton, so coffee was
properly appreciated. Started our voyage up the Seine at 9 o’clock.
When we left Southampton, we had over 1000 troops on board; all left at
Havre except our 100 and 50 Artists Rifles, so we are a merry little
crowd. The trip up the river was simply great. Glorious day and the
scenery ripping the whole way. Arrived at Rouen about 5:30 but stayed
on board the night. Slept on the mess-room table and had a good night.


WEDNESDAY, _February 17, 1915_

Left the boat at 8 o’clock and had a 5-mile march to reach camp.
Poured the whole way, so our first footing on French soil was hardly
encouraging. Arrived at camp and put eleven in each hut (or tent), and
then, thank God, breakfast turned up. Tea, bread and jam--and didn’t
it go down well! Another medical inspection and kit finally examined;
rest of day to ourselves. Did a cinema in evening and had a good night
in tent.


THURSDAY, _February 18, 1915_

Up at 7 o’clock, and, after an inspection by some General “cove” or
other, had day to ourselves. Did cinema again in evening. Hear we are
off to trenches to-morrow. Now it’s so near, I’m very keen on getting
there and hope it comes off.


FRIDAY, _February 19, 1915_

No luck! Stood by all day and no orders came out. Should like some work
to do, as hanging about in tent tends to make me liverish, humpy and
irritable.


SATURDAY, _February 20, 1915_

Work in earnest. On road making and mud shifting from 7:15 to 4
o’clock. Got a grand wash in the evening and felt happy and fit once
more.


SUNDAY, _February 21, 1915_

Rifle inspection only. Rest of day to ourselves. No further orders
and once again we show our capabilities at standing by. Awful job to
get water to wash with, and the feeling of filthiness is positively
appalling.


MONDAY, _February 22, 1915_

Nothing all day beyond rifle inspection in morning. Told off for not
shaving. _Inter alia_, the trials of a voluntary soldier, consist of
making fires without wood and shaving without water.


TUESDAY, _February 23, 1915_

Off to the trenches at last. Paraded at 2 o’clock and marched to Rouen
Station. Tremendous train with all sorts and conditions of troops.
Rotten carriages, a bit worse than the third class on G. E. suburban
trains. Left Rouen 5:50 P. M. and arrived Bailleul 11:30 A. M. February
24, 1915. Detrained to the sound of artillery.


WEDNESDAY, _February 24, 1915_

Joined up with the First Battalion and met many old chums from
Crowboro’, just back from trenches on a few days’ rest. Attached to “B”
Coy, and billeted in a barn over a cow shed and pig sty. Had a grand
night’s rest; woken up once or twice by the guns which seemed horribly
close. Now in Belgium and disgusted at the state of the peasants and
hovels in which they live. No idea of cleanliness and seem to revel in
dirt. Was present at a search for live stock by party back from trench;
several captures witnessed, and have now some idea of what is to come.


THURSDAY, _February 25, 1915_

Rifle inspection followed by a hot bath in a brewery tub and a change
of linen. What luck! and what a lovely clean feeling. In the evening
letters from home turned up; four from Jim, one from Mother, and p.c.
from Tick. All are well and I’m much relieved at hearing after three
weeks.


FRIDAY, _February 26, 1915_

Nothing on to-day so spent afternoon and evening in Bailleul. Guns
rather noisy to-day but otherwise things fairly quiet.


SATURDAY, _February 27, 1915_

Ordered to parade to march to trenches at 4:30. Understand we are going
in for eight days, four each in firing and support trenches. Arrived
in firing trench at 9:30. Cold, wet night, and continually sniped at
during last mile. Relieved Cheshires in trenches opposite Messines
Ridge, and just to encourage us, Williams and I, who were together in a
lookout, were told by a sergeant we were in one of the most dangerous
parts of the line, as they had had eight casualties there during the
day. Surprised at the calm way in which we both took this; and we spent
the night on watch, hour in and hour out, without being worried beyond
a few sniper shots.


SUNDAY, _February 28, 1915_

A very interesting day. In the morning had a glorious view of an
English airman shelled by anti-aircraft gun. In the afternoon had my
first taste of shell fire, but the Germans are not good at it and did
very little damage.


MONDAY, _March 1, 1915_

Sunday night was a perfect beast. Cold and wet and snipers very busy.
As for to-day, my first real feeling of funk. A shell burst on parapet
just in front of me and gave me a bad shaking. Upset me for about a
quarter of an hour, but kept it to myself and pulled myself together
again. In the evening, while fetching water, a man shot down three
yards from us. Also rather upsetting but kept my head this time.
Reached support trenches about 10 o’clock, and had a ripping sleep safe
from snipers and fairly so from shells.


TUESDAY, _March 2, 1915_

Nice calm day to-day in redoubt behind firing line. Nothing to do
all day but sleep and did that very well indeed. Worked all night in
cutting down hedge so as not to affect fire in case of attack--rotten
job, and sniped at all the time.


WEDNESDAY, _March 3, 1915_

Another calm day. In the afternoon watched German shells smashing
into a village about one half mile from redoubt. Very interesting
and a sight never to be forgotten. Thank Heaven, the people had gone.
Returned to firing line at night.


THURSDAY, _March 4, 1915_

On Sunday the 28th I wrote the Germans are not much good with their
shells. I now beg their pardon. The beasts shelled us with heavy guns
from 7 in the morning until dusk, and I sincerely hope I never have a
similar experience. It’s a horrible nerve racking job and I felt it
pretty badly, but everyone was the same, so there is no need to blame
myself. No sleep all day and all night; I did lookout hour in and hour
out.


FRIDAY, _March 5, 1915_

A fairly calm day after yesterday, but in early morning surprise
fusillade from Germans. Machine guns and heavy rifle fire. Gave them
plenty back and they soon stopped. Returned to redoubt at night
absolutely done to the world.


SATURDAY, _March 6, 1915_

My twenty-fourth birthday. Woke at 2 P. M. and felt much better for
long sleep. Wrote Jim and Mother, and spent afternoon chatting and
generally lazing. On guard from 7 to 9 in evening and 1 to 3 early
Sunday morning.


SUNDAY, _March 7, 1915_

A quiet day in dugout. Found it hard to sleep owing to heavy artillery
fire. Should really return to billets to-night but ordered to remain as
supports. At 7 P. M. I and fifteen others ordered to proceed to firing
lines. There for three hours during which time I was on listening
patrol--a particularly nervy and rotten job. Arrived back in dugouts
about midnight.


MONDAY, _March 8, 1915_

Very quiet day in dugout and had a good sleep. Worked all night on
fatigue, and returned to supporting line at dawn.


TUESDAY, _March 9, 1915_

Stood by all day, and at night received joyful news to return to
billets. Reached them at midnight, and relief at being out of all
danger for the present cannot be overestimated.


WEDNESDAY, _March 10, 1915_

Slept on well into the day. In evening walked into village of Dresouke
and had a good wash, shave, and meal. Ye Gods!


THURSDAY, _March 11, 1915_

Busy all day on various fatigues. We come from trenches for what is
called a “rest.” I should like to know what the Army Authorities call
“work.”


FRIDAY, _March 12, 1915_

Marched into Bailleul and took up fresh billets in another barn. Very
glad to see some really respectable people, and the barn for a change
happened to be nice and clean.


SATURDAY, _March 13, 1915_

Morning spent in physical and bayonet drill, and in the afternoon had a
bath and change of linen. Very nice indeed, and after a good meal spent
evening in recreation-room.


SUNDAY, _March 14, 1915_

Ye Gods! what a day; turned out at 5 A. M. and left billets in full
marching order for unknown destination at 9. Marched all morning over
an awful cobbled road and bivouacked in wheatfield all afternoon.
In evening marched to trenches about four miles to the north of
Armentieres. Got right to firing line to find we were not expected and
not wanted. Here we are twelve or thirteen miles from billets and done
to the wide. Spent two hours lying on the road whilst an empty farm was
found which we reached about midnight. Went straight off to sleep, and
never remember feeling as whacked before.


MONDAY, _March 15, 1915_

Spent day in farm waiting for further orders, and at 8 P. M. once
more marched to trenches. Placed in supports in what once was a
village--now not a whole house standing. I and six others put into a
small coal cellar of a house of which one wall is now standing. Spent
night on guard. Plenty of snipers about and grenades fairly frequent,
but no shells.


TUESDAY, _March 16, 1915_

Quiet day in cellar. Only two shells over, but no harm done. Evening on
guard again similar to last night.


WEDNESDAY, _March 17, 1915_

Another day in cellar. Slept most of the time and only a few shells
over. In evening relieved by Dublin Fusiliers, and started on our
return march to Bailleul about 9 o’clock. Reached our billets at 1:30
A. M. Thursday morning, very, very fagged. That beastly cobbled road
is too awful, and everyone felt whacked, although the total distance
marched could not have been more than twelve miles.


THURSDAY, _March 18, 1915_

Up about 10 o’clock and spent morning cleaning up once more. In evening
had a good meal in town and retired early, fairly happy once more.


FRIDAY, _March 19, 1915_

Rifle and equipment inspection in morning; afternoon and evening to
ourselves. Toothache very bad all day and glad to stay in billets.


SATURDAY, _March 20, 1915_

Route march in morning and spent afternoon sharpening Company’s
bayonets. In the evening visited cinema open for first time in Bailleul
to-night. Very good show and thoroughly enjoyed it.


SUNDAY, _March 21, 1915_

On guard all day outside billets. Very uninteresting and monotonous
except for mild excitement caused by a German Taube appearing over
town. Too high up for effectual rifle fire and it soon cleared off.


MONDAY, _March 22, 1915_

A most interesting march to that poor ill-fated town of Ypres, twelve
miles--the whole way lying a little behind the firing line. Flying
machines galore--two heavily but ineffectually shelled by the Germans.
Ypres in shocking condition. Quartered in Belgian barracks, roof of
which has been smashed in in many places. Don’t feel particularly safe
as town is still shelled daily, but here’s hoping our luck will stand.


TUESDAY, _March 23, 1915_

Had a stroll round Ypres and returned horribly depressed. Most
beautiful buildings absolutely ruined, and town is one mass of ruins.
A few people still living there, mainly proprietors of cafés, etc.,
otherwise streets deserted. Two shells fell into town to-day but
happily missed the barracks.


WEDNESDAY, _March 24, 1915_

Told to be ready for forty-eight hours in trenches to-night. Spent
day making necessary preparations, and at 8 o’clock started for what
perhaps is most important point of British lines. Our Company attached
to Kings Own Scottish Borderers--a fine regiment and awfully decent
chaps. Reached supports about 10. Terrific rifle fire but we got
through with only nine casualties.


THURSDAY, _March 25, 1915_

Hard at work before dawn improving dugouts, and, as snipers left off
at daybreak and we were in dead ground, were allowed to stroll about
during day. Heavily shelled for about an hour from 10 to 11, during
which time we laid low. At work during night improving roads, turning
in at 4:30 A. M.


FRIDAY, _March 26, 1915_

Went to sleep in dugout about 7:30 after a good drink of hot bovril.
Slept well till noon when woke up to heavy shell fire. Laid low till
dusk when shelling ceased, and we left for our return to billets at
8:15 P. M. Arrived at camp at 10:30 P. M. and once more thankful at
coming through all right.


SATURDAY, _March 27, 1915_

Up late, and having no parades took things easily. Afternoon had a game
of footer and thoroughly enjoyed the exercise.


SUNDAY, _March 28, 1915_

Police duty from 7 to 8, 10 to 12, and 4 to 5. Very quiet and no
arrests made.


MONDAY, _March 29, 1915_

Paraded in morning for drill and bayonet exercise. In the afternoon
walked to Popperinghe and had a very good time. Fine place untouched by
shells, and found a shop where they sold English tea--what a luxury!


TUESDAY, _March 30, 1915_

Joy of joys! Ordered to parade for a bath. First one since the March
13th, and it was very welcome. Am now decidedly “Itchy Koo” and am so
ashamed of it, but am afraid it cannot be avoided.


WEDNESDAY, _March 31, 1915_

Marched from camp back into the barracks at Ypres, and understand we
are now once more standing by and will go into trenches on Friday
evening.


THURSDAY, _April 1, 1915_

Bayonet drill, etc., in morning. Town shelled during day. One in
barracks but not much damage.


FRIDAY, _April 2, 1915_

Not going to trenches to-night owing to dangerous roads when carrying
on relief. Instead we are to do five days straight off from Monday
next. Quiet day, nothing doing beyond fatigue work, attended Morning
Service for first time since leaving England.


SATURDAY, _April 3, 1915_

Town again shelled during day. More civilians killed but barracks
again escape. Drill and fatigues only. In afternoon attended service
conducted by Bishop of London. Short but very nice service.


SUNDAY, _April 4, 1915_

Church in morning. Quiet all day till 9, when I went up to trenches
on digging fatigue. Got to bed about 2:30 and jolly glad to lie in on
Monday morning.


MONDAY, _April 5, 1915_

Up late, and spent day getting ready for our trip to trenches. Left
barracks at 6:45 and carried out relief at 9 P. M. Very busy night.
Continual deliberate fire and, oh, how it rained! No cover whatever and
we’ve got this for five days. Ye Gods!


TUESDAY, _April 6, 1915_

Rained on and off whole day. Impossible to sleep owing to rain and
shells. Feel very despondent and miserable, but long time to go yet
so must stick it. Another busy night and more rain. Am now properly
soaked, so it does not matter if it pours all the time.


WEDNESDAY, _April 7, 1915_

Weather slightly better, but still plenty of rain on and off. Artillery
active, otherwise day fairly quiet. Periscope very useful indeed. Night
very busy indeed, continued rifle and artillery fire. Several narrow
escapes whilst searching German lines. Twice covered with sand from
shots in bags to my right and left.


THURSDAY, _April 8, 1915_

Thank goodness! decided improvement in weather. One or two hail showers
but not much rain. Wind very cold, and, by jove! it’s hard to sleep.
Quiet day but another busy night. Spoiled so far as I am concerned by
violent toothache; must see a dentist after this spell, without fail.


FRIDAY, _April 9, 1915_

No sleep all day owing to toothache. Hard luck as day comparatively
quiet--very little shell fire from either side. Night again very busy
but glad of the work as helps me to forget the pain.


SATURDAY, _April 10, 1915_

Relief coming to-night and arn’t I glad. Slept a couple of hours in
morning and again in afternoon. Artillery busy once more. Bedfords
turned up, 11:30, so we got away about 12; reached camp 1:30. Had a cup
of tea and asleep at once. Another spell got through and so far not
touched. Thank Heaven for my luck!


SUNDAY, _April 11, 1915_

Woke at 2 P. M. Had a wash and shave and feel fine once more. Spent
evening writing letters and going to make most of rest.


MONDAY, _April 12, 1915_

Paraded sick and doctor gives me pills for toothache. What a fool!
Shall keep at him till he sends me to a dentist. Visited by a Zeppelin
during night. Dropped six bombs, nearest two hundred yards from camp.
Enormous holes but no damage. Our luck in again!


TUESDAY, _April 13, 1915_

Received more pills from doctor. Nearly called him a fool. Had a lazy
afternoon, and no sign of Zeppelins.


WEDNESDAY, _April 14, 1915_

More pills in morning. Afternoon footer match between Ninth and
Twelfth battalions. We lost 2-0. Played very well together; jolly good
side--the Twelfth--and it was a good game.


THURSDAY, _April 15, 1915_

More pills. Have now sufficient for a shop, but shall stick at him till
I get it out.


FRIDAY, _April 16, 1915_

Hurrah! Told to go to hospital at Popperinghe and see the dentist.
Jolly nice chap and tooth soon out. Pretty painful job, but expected
that, and am so glad to get it out. Spent afternoon in town, and back
at camp at 7:30. Quite a successful day.


SATURDAY, _April 17, 1915_

Drill in morning and afternoon, standing by ready to leave camp at one
hour’s notice, owing to attack to be made on trenches and hill outside
Ypres. Tremendous bombardment commenced by our artillery at 7 P. M.
Kept up all night, and must have given the Huns hell!


SUNDAY, _April 18, 1915_

Turned out at 7 and told we leave for reserve line at 8 to support
our Brigade, in view of expected counter-attack--our attack on their
trenches having been successful.


MONDAY, _April 19, 1915_

Germans started our game of artillery bombardment, and gave it us hot
all day. Understand they counter-attacked twice but were repulsed. Not
moved out of reserve line.


TUESDAY, _April 20, 1915_

Our chaps getting it hot all day, and at 6 P. M. we were moved up to
firing line under perfect torrent of shells, shrapnel, and machine
guns--most awful hour ever experienced and nerves absolutely gone.
Two of our companies have had very hot time, losing many men. Luckily
we did not have quite so many casualties. At dawn moved back into
supports, our position being taken over by regulars. I pray I may never
have a similar experience. Too ghastly even to write about.


WEDNESDAY, _April 21, 1915_

Laid in supports all day. Situation apparently died down a bit, but we
are staying here through night.


THURSDAY, _April 22, 1915_

Relieved and returned to billets. Had not been there ten minutes
before to our horror we saw French retreating on our left in a
panic. Battalion rallied and dug trench prepared to do our best. At
12 midnight informed that Canadians had saved situation, but French
trenches still in hands of enemy. Our Brigade told off to retake them.


FRIDAY, _April, 23, 1915_

Moved to new position north of Ypres, and trenches retaken by Kings Own
Scottish Borderers and West Kents, we acting as supports. Stayed all
night making fatigue journeys to firing line, and oh! how I should like
some sleep.


SATURDAY, _April 24, 1915_

Hurried off to another part of line where Germans had also broken
through. Journey made under terrific shell fire and half Battalion
is now gone. Position taken up in reserve trenches to be held at
all costs. Very exciting but keeping calm and cool. Never prayed so
fervently before, but am quite prepared to face whatever is to come
and, please God, we shall stop them. Shell fire is awful.


SUNDAY, _April 25, 1915_

Reinforcements up at dawn and attack in open order started. At first
successful, and then to our horror saw our chaps retreating in disorder
and Germans behind them a mile to our front. Most awful fifteen minutes
of my life--shells everywhere--men being blown to pieces, and we unable
to help, but bound to wait for Germans and drive them off. Then our
chaps rallied and to our joy turned the tables, driving them back into
woods and holding them there despite shells and foul gas bombs. Stayed
there all day, shelled whole time. Evening position unchanged and we
must stop here.


MONDAY, _April 26, 1915_

At dawn hear more reinforcements are up and we can go. Thank God, it’s
over and the position safe. Trench strength of Battalion is now 230
rifles which will show what we have been through (normal strength about
1000).


TUESDAY, _April 27, 1915_

Spent all day just behind firing line in reserve, and shall probably be
here for some days. But what a difference a night’s rest does make, and
I’m ready to go forward at any time.


WEDNESDAY, _April 28, 1915_

Another day spent in reserve. Did nothing much all day and glad of the
quiet. Shells falling pretty close to billet, but none near enough to
hurt.


THURSDAY, _April 29, 1915_

Ordered to return to trenches and left at 7 P. M. Arrived firing line
at 10 P. M. and spent night on watch. Nothing much doing; just a little
sniping, and they got a pal of mine through the neck a few yards from
me. Blackguards!


FRIDAY, _April 30, 1915_

Shelled from early morning to late at night. Another rotten experience,
and am rapidly developing that awful complaint of “shellitis.” If no
attack at dusk we are to be relieved, so here’s hoping they keep away
from us.


SATURDAY, _May 1, 1915_

We were relieved during night and marched some way from trenches into
a wood, where we are to stay for a day or two. Rigged up a covering of
twigs, etc., and slept during day. Sing-song in evening and feeling a
bit more cheerful.


SUNDAY, _May 2, 1915_

Quiet day but called out at night owing to German attack. Laid in
reserve trenches all night and returned to woods at dawn.


MONDAY, _May 3, 1915_

Slept during day and once more called out at night owing to another
German attack. Reserve trenches again all night, but once more attack
repulsed and returned to woods.


TUESDAY, _May 4, 1915_

Actually off for rest at last, and marched five miles from Ypres to a
village where we spent night. Understand we continue our journey in
morning.


WEDNESDAY, _May 5, 1915_

What jolly hard luck we are having. Hill Sixty lost last night and we
are to return to Ypres to help in counter-attack. Marched all day back
in boiling sun and spent night just behind firing line. Understand we
go in to-morrow. Rather dread it, but it’s got to be done.


THURSDAY, _May 6, 1915_

Spent day in dugout whilst troops gathered together for to-night’s
attack. Eight from our Company picked out to do nothing else but carry
up ammunition as our men advance. Moved up to Hill Sixty at dusk, and
at 2:30 A. M. attack commenced. Carried up ammunition with another chap
right up to advance trenches. Terribly hot fire from machine guns and
whiz-bangs, and rather a terrible experience. Stuck it till my partner
overcome by gas. Helped him to dressing station, and then gave a hand
helping down wounded. Poor devils, but what pluck most of them have
got. Turned in at 5 A. M. after hearing attack partially successful.


FRIDAY, _May 7, 1915_

Day in reserve ready for any counter-attack but none came off. Night on
fatigue work: carrying sand bags, etc., to firing line. Off duty at 3
A. M., and moved back nearer Ypres, but are still in reserve. Adjutant
killed this morning: fine soldier and great loss to the Battalion.


SATURDAY, _May 8, 1915_

Another day in reserve and night on fatigue, but was lucky in not
having to go to trenches. Fetched rations and filled water bottles only.


SUNDAY, _May 9, 1915_

Firing line again, this time digging communication trench and repairing
parapets where knocked down by shells. Wonderful view of Ypres on fire
in three places and rapidly spreading.


MONDAY, _May 10, 1915_

Carried up rations to West Lancshires. Awful job--sacks very heavy. Man
in front of me shot in chest coming away. Carried him into cover and
fetched stretcher bearers.


TUESDAY, _May 11, 1915_

Sand bags to firing line after spending quiet day. Our dugouts shelled
during day and three men hit.


WEDNESDAY, _May 12, 1915_

Good news! We are to be relieved to-night. Left dugouts at 10:30 and
reached camp at 5 A. M. weary and happy.


THURSDAY, _May 13, 1915_, to THURSDAY, _May 20, 1915_

Most enjoyable week’s rest in camp at Locre. Did nothing of any
importance and heard no guns and had no shells over. Felt all the
better for it, but has gone all too quickly.


FRIDAY, _May 21, 1915_

Moved to huts nearer firing line and once more in sound of guns. Rotten!


SATURDAY, _May 22, 1915_

Moved further up into dugouts and are now back in line once more.


SUNDAY, _May 23, 1915_

Quiet day, but hard at work all night. Germans attacked 2 A. M. Monday
morning and used gas. Horrible stuff. On our way to dugouts had fifteen
in front of me knocked out by a shell. Awful sight and very upsetting.


MONDAY, _May 24, 1915_

Quiet day spent in recovering from effects of gas. Hard at work again
all night.


TUESDAY, _May 25, 1915_

Remarks of yesterday apply to to-day. Hope this comparative calm
continues whilst we are up.


WEDNESDAY, _May 26, 1915_

Shelled on way to dugouts, early morning, with shrapnel but luckily no
casualties. Evening left dugouts for fire trenches at St. Eloi. Arrived
at midnight and relieved the Liverpool Scottish. Quiet night.


THURSDAY and FRIDAY, _May 27, 1915_, and _May 28, 1915_

Two quiet days in trenches. Nothing doing beyond sniping. Friday
evening we left trenches for reserve line in a wood.


SATURDAY and SUNDAY, _May 29, 1915_, and _May 30, 1915_

Two lazy days in wood. On Saturday night carried rations to trenches,
and on Sunday returned to trenches for another spell.


MONDAY, _May 31, 1915_

TUESDAY, _June 1, 1915_

WEDNESDAY, _June 2, 1915_

THURSDAY, _June 3, 1915_

Four days on detached post connecting Queen Victoria Rifles with West
Kents. Thursday night returned to supporting line about two hundred
yards behind fire trenches.


FRIDAY and SATURDAY, _June 4, 1915_, and _June 5, 1915_

On fatigue duty in supports; both days improving communication trench.
Returned to woods Saturday night.

SUNDAY and MONDAY, _June 6, 1915_, and _June 7, 1915_

Two days spent in reserve in woods. Quite enjoyed the rest from bullets
and shells.


TUESDAY, _June 8, 1915_

WEDNESDAY, _June 9, 1915_

THURSDAY, _June 10, 1915_

FRIDAY, _June 11, 1915_

Four days spent in fire trenches. Nothing doing much beyond sniping,
except last two days when we were shelled by pretty heavy stuff. Not
much damage done.




                                                           June 24, 1915

MRS. STUBBS:

_Dear Madam_: In answer to your inquiry by telegram, I regret to inform
you that Rifleman Stubbs, B. C. No. 2655, was wounded by shell fire on
Tuesday, June 22, and has, we are deeply sorry to say, since passed
away, having succumbed to his injuries.

His death is much lamented by his officers and comrades, two of whom
were wounded by the same shell, one rather seriously.

Deeply sympathizing with you in your terrible loss, I am,

                                  Yours sincerely,

                                          No. 66, M. BROWN, Co. Q. M. S.


BRITISH EXPEDITIONARY FORCE

                                                           June 29, 1915

DEAR MRS. STUBBS:

This is to convey to you my sincere sympathy in the death of your son,
Pr. Stubbs, who died from wounds received last Tuesday. His death was
most unfortunate, a large German shell falling right in our trench,
severely wounding your son and two others; when I saw your son’s wound
(a severe gash on the scalp), I was sure that there was very little
hope of his recovery and I was surprised that he survived so long.
Mercifully he was quite unconscious all the time, and so, I think,
suffered no pain.

Although he did not come out with the battalion in November, he joined,
I think, with the first draft and so has been through all the heavy
work we have done. I am sure you will be glad to know what a good
soldier he was, and that he was always cheerful and did his work well
during the hardships of the winter months.

You may be sure his loss will be felt very deeply both by myself and by
the rest of the platoon. But take comfort in this, that he died a noble
soldier’s death in a magnificent cause.

Again assuring you of my deep sympathy, I am,

                               Yours very sincerely,

                                        P. S. HOUGHTON, 2nd. Lt.

                                                O. C. No. 8 Platoon,

                                                                Q. V. R.




  Never the lotus closes, never the wild fowl wake,
  But a soul goes out on the East-wind that died for England’s sake--
  Man or woman or suckling, mother or bride or maid--
  Because on the bones of the English the English Flag is stayed.

                                                         RUDYARD KIPLING




  PRINTED BY R. R. DONNELLEY
  AND SONS COMPANY, AT THE
  LAKESIDE PRESS: CHICAGO




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:

  Text in italics is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Diary Kept by Rifleman B.C. Stubbs of
the Second Draft Sent to the Queen Vi, by Bernard Castle Stubbs

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DIARY ***

***** This file should be named 57381-0.txt or 57381-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/7/3/8/57381/

Produced by Brian Coe, David E. Brown, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

